This is a fork of https://github.com/tcocca/active_pdftk

= Changes to the origin

1. Fix a bug with streamed output
2. Add meta data handling uility class

== Use

as it's not a published Gem put this in your Gemfile

  gem 'active_pdftk', :git => 'git@github.com:koenhandekyn/active_pdftk.git'

== MetaDataParser

The below example illustrates usage of the meta data parser extention. It uses dump_data
to dump the raw data from the PDF and parses that output.
It returns a special kind of hash where the hash itselve maps the keys to the raw value strings,
while a list of special methods also parses the values to a specific type where relevant (int, date).
It should work both with a file reference as well with a stream reference.


  require 'active_pdftk'

  metadataparser = ActivePdftk::MetaDataParser.new
  file = "~/Desktop/UpNxt.pdf"
  metadata = metadataparser.parse(file)

  puts "pages: #{metadata.number_of_pages}"
  puts "creation date : #{metadata.creation_date}"
  puts "modification date : #{metadata.mod_date}"

This is an alternative to https://github.com/yob/pdf-reader.
TODO : performance comparison.

= ActivePdftk

This gem is intended to be a wrapper for the PDFTK command line utility for working with pdfs, mainly editable pdfs.

Currently this gem is intended to make the following much easier with pdftk:
  1. Perform all operations provided by PDFTK (burst, cat, ....).
  2. Making pdf forms reading & filling easy.
  3. Get all the form fields details (type, readonly, ...) in a structured way to use them within other frameworks (such as Rails).
  4. More to come through specifics adapters...

Official Repository : https://github.com/tcocca/active_pdftk

Library references : http://rubydoc.info/gems/active_pdftk

Issue tracker : https://github.com/tcocca/active_pdftk/issues


== Installation

You must have PDFTK binary installed :

https://github.com/tcocca/active_pdftk/wiki/Install-pdftk

Or directly :

http://www.pdflabs.com/tools/pdftk-the-pdf-toolkit

Then install the gem (note this is just in prep - the gem has not be released yet, soon I promise!)

  gem install active_pdftk

or with Bundler :

  gem 'active_pdftk'

or in a old rails 2.3.x app

  config.gem 'active_pdftk'


== Usage

PDFTK provides all kind of operations (See below for a full list).
Depending of your needs you will use different Adapters.

For form handling use +ActivePdftk::Form+ :

  bic = ActivePdftk::Form.new('bic.pdf')
  bic.set('first_field', 'SomeString') #=> 'SomeString'
  bic.save #=> StringIO
  bic.save('/path/to/filled.pdf') #=> '/path/to/filled.pdf'

it is quite straightforward !

For read/write metadata on a pdf file use +ActivePdftk::Metadata+ (coming soon).

for other needs you will use +ActivePdftk::Wrapper+ to access all operations of PDFTK.

if you want to dig deeper check +ActivePdftk::Call+ which build the command line from an options hash.

=== ActivePdftk::Wrapper

This is the class you will interact with for all operations.
The class will discover your 'pdftk' library (works on all *nix systems), but you can optionally give a path to the binary :

  @pdftk = ActivePdftk::Wrapper.new
  @pdftk.path # => 'etc/bin/pdftk'

OR

  @pdftk = ActivePdftk::Wrapper.new(:path => '/usr/local/bin/pdftk')
  @pdftk.path # => '/usr/local/bin/pdftk'

Then all operations are available :

  @pdftk.cat([{:pdf => 'a.pdf', :pass => 'foo'}, {:pdf => 'b.pdf', :start => 1, :end => 'end', :orientation => 'N', :pages => 'even'}])
  @pdftk.burst('in1.pdf')
  @pdftk.dump_data_fields('~/Desktop/a.pdf', :output => '~/Desktop/data_fields.txt')
  ...

Other operations are :

    cat (partially supported)
    shuffle (partially supported)
    burst (fully supported)
    generate_fdf (fully supported) (this operation doesn't always provide readable FDF, we support this feature by our means)
    fill_form (fully supported)
    background (fully supported)
    multibackground (fully supported)
    stamp (fully supported)
    multistamp (fully supported)
    dump_data (fully supported)
    dump_data_utf8 (fully supported)
    dump_data_fields (fully supported)
    dump_data_fields_utf8 (fully supported)
    update_info (fully supported)
    update_info_utf8 (fully supported)
    attach_files (partially supported)
    unpack_files (fully supported)

=== The Domain Specific Language

All operations & options are available through a hash corresponding to a DSL.
A full explanation of this DSL could be read in +ActivePdftk::Call+ reference.

#TODO write a more explicit, but concise paragraph.


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Tom Cocca. See LICENSE for details.


== Contributors

Marco ( https://github.com/elmatou ) - Thanks for contributing so much to the re-write of this gem and for adding most of the support for other methods in the Call class.


== Props

Props to this gem go out to: 
jkraemer (Jens Krämer) for creating https://github.com/jkraemer/pdf-forms and 
devfu (Dev Fu!) for creating https://github.com/devfu/pdftk.

This gem was originally based on the work of those two projects and greatly expands upon their functionality.
